[seven] - Rearrange docs (#6856)
plone/volto: docs/index.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "The Seven user interface (UI) is a React-based frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:description": "The Seven user interface (UI) is a React-based frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:title": "Seven"
    "keywords": "Seven, Plone, frontend, user interface, React"
---

(volto-index-label)=

# Seven

> The Seven user interface (UI) is a React-based frontend for [Plone](https://plone.org).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Seven user interface (UI) is a fast, elegant, and intuitive React-based frontend for [Plone](https://plone.org).
```

Seven is the codename for the successor of Volto.

> The codename is _temporary_, the final name of the product has to be decided in the future, by the community when the release happens.

Reviewer: Do we really want to say "by the community"? I might remove it.

```suggestion
The codename is _temporary_, the final name of the product will be chosen by the community when the release happens.
```

> It is under active development [in its own branch `seven`](https://github.com/plone/volto/tree/seven) in parallel with Volto in the `main` branch and current stable branch `18.x.x`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is under active development [in its own branch `seven`](https://github.com/plone/volto/tree/seven) in parallel with both Volto 19 in the branch `main` and the current stable version Volto 18 in the branch `18.x.x`.
```

The Volto Team recognized this evolution, and made the decision to adapt the next version of Volto to these modern practices.

## Get started

The following sections guide you to begin your journey with Volto.

### Integrators

An integrator is someone who uses Volto to build a project.

-   {doc}`plone:install/create-project` is a guide to bootstrap a new Volto project and start hacking.
-   {doc}`development/overview` is intended for integrators to assess their knowledge and determine what gaps they would like to fill through available resources.
-   {doc}`tutorials/index` lists several tutorials and references for further research and learning.

### Users

A user of Volto is someone who edits content in a Plone content management system with Volto as the user interface.

-   {doc}`user-manual/index` provides information about how to manage content in a Plone site.

### Contributors

A contributor is someone who writes code or documentation for the Volto core packages.

-   {doc}`plone:contributing/first-time` is for people who have not yet made a contribution to Plone, Volto, or open source software.

> -   {doc}`plone:contributing/index` is for people who have not yet signed the Plone Contributor Agreement or contributed to any other project under the GitHub Plone organization, including Volto.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   {doc}`plone:contributing/index` is for all people who want to contribute code to any projects under the Plone GitHub organization, including Volto.
```

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "The Seven user interface (UI) is a React-based frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:description": "The Seven user interface (UI) is a React-based frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:title": "Seven"
    "keywords": "Seven, Plone, frontend, user interface, React"
---

(volto-index-label)=

# Seven

The Seven user interface (UI) is a fast, elegant, and intuitive React-based frontend for [Plone](https://plone.org).

Seven is the codename for the successor of Volto.

> The codename is _temporary_, the final name of the product will be chosen when the release happens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The codename is _temporary_; the final name of the product will be chosen when the release happens.
```

  html_meta:

>     "description": "The Volto user interface (UI) is a React-based frontend for the Plone CMS. It is the default user interface starting with the release of Plone 6."

Reviewer: Let's combine into a single sentence, removing version number, "default", and "CMS".

```suggestion
    "description": "The Seven user interface (UI) is a React-based frontend for Plone."
```

>     "property=og:description": "The Volto user interface (UI) is a React-based frontend for the Plone CMS. It is the default user interface starting with the release of Plone 6."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "property=og:description": "The Seven user interface (UI) is a React-based frontend for Plone."
```

    "property=og:title": "Seven"
    "keywords": "Seven, Plone, frontend, user interface, React"
---

(volto-index-label)=

# Seven

> The Seven user interface (UI) is a React-based frontend for the [Plone content management system](https://plone.org).

Reviewer: I'd entertain adjectives such as "fast", "elegant", or "intuitive". Reason being to promote its strengths, instead of creating a pissing match between frontends, although Volto already won it.

```suggestion
The Seven user interface (UI) is a React-based frontend for [Plone](https://plone.org).
```

Author: All temptative things, of course, just to have something in here.

Seven is the codename for the successor of Volto.
The codename is _temporary_, the final name of the product has to be decided in the future, by the community when the release happens.

> It is being developed [in its own branch](https://github.com/plone/volto/tree/7) along side Volto (in main branch) as it happens during the next months.

Reviewer: I'm still not clear what branches are under active development. I think `17.x.x` is in maintenance support, not development, so maybe drop that one? I'm also not clear about `18.x.x` because it doesn't exist yet, and I assume that v19 will develop on `main`.

```suggestion
It is under active development [in its own branch `7`](https://github.com/plone/volto/tree/7) in parallel with Volto in the `main` branch and versioned branches `17.x.x` and `18.x.x`.
```

Author: Now `18.x.x` does exist. I will update the Seven branch name, since it has been already renamed. There's no point in mentioning `17.x.x`.

> ## Rationale

Reviewer: Breathe. Space is good for eyes.

```suggestion

## Rationale
```

> Plone Volto frontend is (as per 2025) eight years old.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Volto turned eight years old in 2025.
```

> We architectured and implemented Volto using the libraries, frameworks, resouces and best practices that were available back in the day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Volto Team architected and implemented Volto using the libraries, frameworks, resources, and best practices that were available at that time.
```

> These have all changed, in the midst of the ever-changing and ever-evolving React ecosystem, therefore, the way of developing React applications nowadays have dramatically changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since then the React ecosystem has evolved, and so has the way of developing React applications.
React 19 is stable now, settling upon a common paradigm for efficient data fetching in both the server and the client.
Other React frameworks have embraced and leveraged this paradigm, battle testing them in production.

The Volto Team recognized this evolution, and made the decision to adapt the next version of Volto to these modern practices.
```

> React 19 is stable now, settling (at last) a common paradigm for efficient data fetching in both the server and the client.
> Nowadays React frameworks leverage and are embracing this paradigm, battle testing them in production.
> 
> Plone has to embrace also these best practices an patterns, replacing all the legacy libraries and old patterns with the current ones.

Reviewer: Combine with above.

```suggestion
```

## Get started

> The following sections helps you to begin your journey with Volto.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections guide you to begin your journey with Volto.
```
